Apex Doc Update (#4522)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/ja/apex/apex-get-started.md

---
title: Quick Start Apex Development with Salesforce Extensions
lang: en
---
  
## Quick Start Apex Development
Complete this Quick Start to create, test and debug a workflow that is created using an Apex class, and sets off a Apex trigger.

> We’ll create a custom object called `Book`, and add a custom field called `Price` to that custom object. We’ll update and test the updated Price field using Apex and learn how to work with Apex Code using the Salesforce Extensions.

Reviewer: I'm having that feeling of deja vu - but I was thinking about this above - seems like it's You'll create this or that, not we, right?

> We’ll create a custom object called `Book`, and add a custom field called `Price` to that custom object. We’ll update and test the updated Price field using Apex and learn how to work with Apex Code using the Salesforce Extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ll create a custom object called `Book`, and add a custom field called `Price` to that custom object. We’ll update and test the updated Price field using Apex and learn how to work with Apex code using the Salesforce Extensions.
```

Before you start, install [Salesforce Extensions for Desktop](./en/../../vscode-desktop/install.md) or [Set Up Code Builder](./en/../../codebuilder/cb-setup.md)

### Create a Custom Object

> 1. Log in to your sandbox or Developer org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your sandbox or developer org.
```

Reviewer: If you're using developer org generically, this I would l/c it. If you're specifically referring to a Developer Edition org, then I'd cap it.

2. Go to **Setup** > **Object Manager** > **Create** > **Custom Object**.
3. Enter `Book` for the label.
4. Enter `Books` for the plural label.
5. Click **Save.**
6. In the **Custom Fields & Relationships** section of the Book detail page, click **New**.
7. Select `Number` for the data type and click **Next**.
8. Enter `Price` for the field label.
9. Enter `16` in the length text box.

> 10. Enter `2` in the decimal places text box, and click Next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Enter `2` in the decimal places text box, and click **Next**.
```

11. Click **Next** to accept the default values for field-level security.
12. Click **Save**.

### Add an Apex Class
1. Connect to the org that you added the custom object to in VS Code.

> 2. Run the `SFDX: Refresh SObject Definitions` command from the Command Palette to get completion suggestions for your SObjects related code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the **SFDX: Refresh SObject Definitions** command from the Command Palette to get completion suggestions for your SObjects related code.
```

> 3. Scroll down to Custom Object in the Org Browser and locate the `Book_c` object. Click the retrieve icon to run `SFDX: Retrieve Source from Org`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Scroll down to Custom Object in the Org Browser and locate the `Book_c` object. Click the retrieve icon to run **SFDX: Retrieve Source from Org**.
```

> 4. From the command palette run `SFDX:Create Apex Class` and create a class called `MyHelloWorld`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. From the Command Palette run `SFDX:Create Apex Class` and create a class called `MyHelloWorld`. 
```

> 4. From the command palette run `SFDX:Create Apex Class` and create a class called `MyHelloWorld`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. From the command palette run **SFDX:Create Apex Class** and create a class called `MyHelloWorld`. 
```

5. Add a method called `applyDiscount` to this class. 
   

> We’ll make this method both public and static. Because it’s a static method, you don't need to create an instance of the class to access the method—you can just use the name of the class followed by a dot (.) and the name of the method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make this method both public and static. Because it’s a static method, you don't need to create an instance of the class to access the method — you can just use the name of the class followed by a dot (.) and the name of the method.
```

This method takes one parameter, a list of Book records, which is assigned to the variable books. The method iterates through a list of books and applies a 10% discount to the current book price:

```
public with sharing class MyHelloWorld {
    public MyHelloWorld() {

    }
    public static void applyDiscount(Book__c[] books) {
        for (Book__c b :books){
           b.Price__c *= 0.9;
        }
     }
}
```

> Next we’ll add a trigger that calls this `applyDiscount` method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add a trigger that calls this `applyDiscount` method. 
```

### Add an Apex Trigger

> An Apex trigger is a piece of code that executes before or after records of a particular type are inserted, updated, or deleted from the Lightning Platform database. Every trigger runs with a set of context variables that provide access to the records that caused the trigger to fire.

Reviewer: I questioned before if it's really called LP database.

> 1. From the command palette run SFDX:Create Apex Trigger and create a new class called HelloWorldTrigger. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the Command Palette run SFDX: Create Apex Trigger and create a new class called HelloWorldTrigger. 
```

> 1. From the command palette run SFDX:Create Apex Trigger and create a new class called HelloWorldTrigger. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the Command Palette, run **SFDX:Create Apex Trigger** and create a new class called `HelloWorldTrigger`. 
```

2. Update the default template to this trigger definition:

```
trigger HelloWorldTrigger on Book__c (before insert) {

   Book__c[] books = Trigger.new;

   MyHelloWorld.applyDiscount(books);
}
```

> We now have the code that is needed to update the price of all books that get inserted. Next, let’s add a test class and add a unit test. Unit tests are an important part of writing code and are required.
> ### Write a Unit Test
> Now we'll add a test class with one test method. We’ll also run the test and verify code coverage. The test method exercises and validates the code in the trigger and class. Also, it enables you to reach 100% code coverage for the trigger and class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We now have the code that is needed to update the price of all books that get inserted. Next, let’s add a test class and add a unit test. Unit tests are an important part of writing code and are required.

### Write a Unit Test
Now we'll add a test class with one test method. We’ll also run the test and verify code coverage. The test method exercises and validates the code in the trigger and class. Also, it enables you to reach 100% code coverage for the trigger and class.
```

> Now we'll add a test class with one test method. We’ll also run the test and verify code coverage. The test method exercises and validates the code in the trigger and class. Also, it enables you to reach 100% code coverage for the trigger and class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now add a test class with one test method. Then run the test and verify code coverage. The test method exercises and validates the code in the trigger and class. Also, it enables you to reach 100% code coverage for the trigger and class.
```

> For our example, we’ll create a test class that inserts a new book object which sets off the Apex trigger we wrote earlier. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our example, create a test class that inserts a new book object which sets off the Apex trigger we wrote earlier. 
```

To create the test class:

> 1. From the command palette run SFDX:Create Apex Class and create a class called HelloWorldTestClass. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the Command Palette run SFDX: Create Apex Class and create a class called HelloWorldTestClass. 
```

> 1. From the command palette run SFDX:Create Apex Class and create a class called HelloWorldTestClass. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the Command Palette, run **SFDX:Create Apex Class** and create a class called `HelloWorldTestClass`. 
```

> 1. From the command palette run SFDX:Create Apex Class and create a class called HelloWorldTestClass. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the command palette run `SFDX: Create Apex Class` and create a class called HelloWorldTestClass. 
```

Have we been capitalizing command palette? i'm forgetting now 🧐

Author: Yes capitalizing.

> 2. Paste the following code in the HelloworldTestClass.cls file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Paste the following code in the `HelloworldTestClass.cls` file:
```

Reviewer: Should the "W" in world be cap'd - looks like it is in the code example below.

```
@isTest 
private class HelloWorldTestClass {
    static testMethod void validateHelloWorld() {
       Book__c b = new Book__c(Name='Behind the Cloud', Price__c=100);
       // Insert book
       insert b;    
       // Retrieve the new book
       b = [SELECT Price__c FROM Book__c WHERE Id =:b.Id];
//Confirm that the price has been updated correctly
       System.assertEquals(90, b.Price__c);
      }
}
```
Note
:::note
This test class is defined using the `@isTest` annotation. Classes defined this way should only contain test methods and any methods required to support those test methods. One advantage to creating a separate class for testing is that classes defined with `@isTest` don’t count against your org’s limit of 6 MB of Apex code. You can also add the `@isTest` annotation to individual methods. For more information, see [isTest Annotation](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_classes_annotation_isTest.htm) and [Execution Governors and Limits](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_gov_limits.htm).
:::

> 3. To run the test you wrote, you must deploy your code to your org. Right-click within the file and run Run `SFDX: Deploy This Source to Org` to deploy your code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To run the test you wrote, you must deploy your code to your org. Right-click within the file and run **SFDX: Deploy This Source to Org** to deploy your code. 
```

> 3. To run the test you wrote, you must deploy your code to your org. Right-click within the file and run Run `SFDX: Deploy This Source to Org` to deploy your code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To run the test you wrote, you must deploy your code to your org. Right-click within the file and run `SFDX: Deploy This Source to Org` to deploy your code. 
```

> 4. Run `SFDX: Turn On Apex Debug Log for Replay Debugger` to turn on debug logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run **SFDX: Turn On Apex Debug Log for Replay Debugger**` to turn on debug logs.
```

> 5.  Click `“Run All Tests”` in the `HelloWorldTestClass` file to run your test.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5.  Click **Run All Tests** in the `HelloWorldTestClass` file to run your test.  
```

### Debug Your Code Using Apex Replay Debugger
With your code deployed in the org, you’re ready to use the Apex Replay Debugger to debug your code. The Replay Debugger uses debug logs generated in your org to replay a test scenario. 

> 1. Run `SFDX: Get Apex Debug Logs` and select the topmost file from the list to get the most recent debug log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run `SFDX: Get Apex Debug Logs` and select the topmost file from the list to get the most recent debug log.
```
```suggestion
1. Run **SFDX: Get Apex Debug Logs** and select the topmost file from the list to get the most recent debug log.
```

 The log file opens.
2. Open the `HelloWorldTestClass.cls` file and set a breakpoint on Decimal `b_price = b.Price__c;`.
3. Set another breakpoint on `Book__c[] books = Trigger.new;` in the `HelloWorldTrigger.trigger` file. 

> 4. Open `HelloWorldTestClass.cls` file and run `SFDX: Launch Apex Replay Debugger with Current File` from the command palette to generate and load the debug log file and launch the replay debugger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Open `HelloWorldTestClass.cls` file and run `SFDX: Launch Apex Replay Debugger with Current File` from the Command Palette to generate and load the debug log file and launch the Replay Debugger.
```

> 4. Open `HelloWorldTestClass.cls` file and run `SFDX: Launch Apex Replay Debugger with Current File` from the command palette to generate and load the debug log file and launch the replay debugger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Open `HelloWorldTestClass.cls` file and run **SFDX: Launch Apex Replay Debugger with Current File**` from the Command Palette to generate and load the debug log file and launch the Replay Debugger.
```
